

explore
search
use nearby

fight 12345
challenge 6
npc 7 
subdungeon 8
curio 9 
item 10

Challenges prevent you from further exploring until it has been overcome.
In order to overcome a challenge, you must either pass or fail a skill check which is determined by the type of challenge it is.
If you pass, you overcome the challenge without any consequences.
If you fail, the challenge is still considered to have been overcome, but you are forced to accept an often negative consequence.
If you are certain you will fail, you can avoid the challenge entirely at the cost of your Energy. This isn't an option if you have 0 energy.

Challenges, Level One, Petrified Woods
    Courage
        1. Canyon
            The path gives way to deep canyon.
                Upon a successful Courage Check, the player can leap across safely.
                Upon a failed Courage Check, the player falls in, sustains damage, and climbs up the other side to safety.
                If avoided, player spends energy going off the path and around the canyon.
                Rope can be used to freely overcome this challenge.
    Guile
        1. Thornbush
            The path is blocked by a sprawling and viciously-thorned hedge.
                Upon a successful Guile Check, the player manages to inch through the bushes without sustaining any damage.
                Upon a failed Guile Check, the player is badly damaged after pressing through the bushes.
                If avoided, player spends energy going off the path and around the thornbush.
                A Torch can be used to freely overcome this challenge.
    Instinct
        1. Colossus
            The path is blocked by a colossal herbavore which lowers its head to charge when you get near.
                Upon a successful Instinct check, the player is able to calm the animal and pass by it safely.
                Upon a failed Instinct check, the player is knocked unconcious by the animal and wakes up after it has left.
                If avoided, the player spends energy going off the path and around the colossus.
                Brightbud can be used to freely overcome this challenge. 
    Luck
        1. Bandits
            The path is blocked by bandits who demand tribute for your passage.
                Upon a successful Luck check, the player convinces the bandits to allow passage.
                Upon a failed Luck check, the player is ambushed by bandits. Initialize combat.
                If avoided, the player spends energy going off the path and around the bandits.
                A level-dependent amount of money can be used to freely overcome this challenge.

Curiosities, Level One, Petrified Woods
    Courage
        1. Trapped Predator
            A dangerously beautiful creature
    Guile
        1. Strange Obelisk
    Instinct
        1. Item Lure
    Luck
        1. Mysterious Fruit
